---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/temp-home.jpg'
title: Evil
date: 2018-04-29 15:00:00
tags: personal
author: nolski
---


### Lurking in the periphery

I went out to this TexMex restaurant in Shmeisani not too far from my temp
housing and before you sit there and judge me through your computer screen...
American food is obscenely common here. So if you aren't getting a falafel,
you'll be ordering a burger. So in my book, a fajita is pretty fuckin diverse.

Anyways, I was sitting at the bar, drinking a Carakale blonde ale, and eating
my surprisingly good delicious while listening to all of the far too detailed
stories of the bartender's (he told me to call him Jonny) sexual exploits
while in bartending school in Las Vegas. In-between him numbering off the amount
of girls who he cleverly convinced into sleeping with him, the topic briefly
switched onto what he called the "American Mafia".

I had no idea what he was talking about. I've heard of the Italian mafia, the
Irish, Korean, The Triad, but the American Mafia seemed almost comical to me.
I mean, why would Americans resort to organized crime when they can already
unceremoniously bomb any small to mid sized country without anyone so much as
making a passing comment about it.

Obviously Jonny didn't mean it so literally. What he was talking about is this
underground, Illuminati-esque organization which contained all of America's
most elite and wealthy members. Everyone from Bill Gates to Tom Cruise was a
part of the American Mafia. Hell, even Justin Beiber (who's Canadian) rolled
with the American Mafia. Strangely enough, Donald Trump wasn't a part of the
American Mafia, but I didn't push as to why.

When Jonny spoke about the American Mafia in the absurd way that he did, there
was still some sort of relatable kernel of truth hidden underneath all of his
absurd Dan Brown sort-of theory. Every facet of American society (and beyond it
seems) seems to speak towards this purveying theory of some greater force
consistently pushing us towards some sort of encroaching doom. American Mafia,
Illuminati, capitalism, technology, bureaucracy. I don't know, you fucking name
it and someone will have some woke explanation for why everything seems so shit.

Whatever it is, it's Evil.

The feeling towards whatever is fucking us over crosses all political
boundaries, races, ideologies, religions, everything. Even now, working for one
of the undoubtedly most effective humanitarian organizations, I can feel forces
fighting against doing the right thing. Just little pushes in the right places
that happen so far from where you are standing. That shift the world in just
the right way to put the perfect amount of obstacles between you and the right
decision.

Evil is the thing that justifies small decisions that end up snow balling into
catastrophe. Evil is the thing that slowly starves entire countries over
hundreds of years while on the other side of the planet, we experience an
obesity epidemic. Evil is the world's largest super power being at war for over
15 years without a large chunk of it's population even really recognizing it.

I'm not trying to say American's are especially evil, rather that this evil
force or power, whatever it is. It permeates us, our governments, our jobs.
Everything we do is affected by it.

We all feel it but we can't pin-point it. It's like air. It surrounds us. It
fills us.

I don't know what the solution here is. It seems historically we have always
been prone as humans to create terrible suffering. The more power we gave
ourselves, the more effective and the more ruthless we have seem to become.
