---
layout: post
title: Day Zero
cover: 'assets/images/amman-sunrise.jpg'
date: 2018-03-15 23:00:00
tags: personal misc career irc
author: nolski
---

### Here we go.

It's signed. My two weeks are in. Meetings are being scheduled. I'm trying to
sell all of my shit. People are asking if I'm excited. I'm unconvincingly
saying yes. The truth of the situation is that leaving a job is awkward, no
matter how you cut it. I think it's especially awkward given the kind of career
transition I'm trying to take.

At the end of the day, switching from a gif company into an NGO is going to
make a statement. I guess in hindsight, I should have had more foresight. That
seems to be a prevailing trend in my life lessons but maybe now is the time
that I'll finally internalize that lesson.

Right?


<blockquote>
  <h4>In hindsight, I should have had more foresight. <cite>— Dumbass Mike</cite></h4>
</blockquote>

So let us get on with the important stuff.

### Working at the IRC.

Employment Hub Senior Specialist. I'm not sure who comes up with these titles
but that's what mine is. I'll be working on a thing called Project Match™
(formerly Employment Hub). The whole project idea came from the [Jordan 
Compact](http://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2016/12/20/eu-jordan-partnership-priorities-and-compact/).
A set of commitments from both the EU and Jordan to fulfil the pledges made at
the London conference in 2016 to support Syria and the surrounding region.The
whole point of it all is that the EU in partnership with Jordan will enact
various programs to support Syrian refugees as well as vulnerable host
communities.

When the IRC heard about this whole thing the Airbel Center (the IRC's R&D lab
that is employing me) put together this quite nice proposal and [great
study](https://www.rescue.org/sites/default/files/document/1527/irc-syrianrefugeeemployment-72dpi-041117.pdf)
that contained some pretty interesting anecdotes. It makes several proposals at
the end of the report. It is from these proposals that Project Match stems.

### Project Match

So the whole goal of Project Match is to provide a reasonable quality of life
to Syrian refugees in Jordan by finding reasonable employment. One of the ways
we plan on achieving this is by collecting large amounts of employment data on
the refugee population along with a catalog of potential and current employment
opportunities.

Using that data we will be able to programmatically identify good candidates
for local employment opportunities. Perhaps more importantly we will also be
able to use existing employment data as a way of attracting new large
employment opportunities from large international corporations, development
banks, etc.

Ideally the tools we create will allow case workers to be able to collect a
comprehensive set of data surrounding a single refugee that encompasses not
just their employment status and skills, but also their satisfaction with their
current working situation.

My job will be acting as a full stack engineer as well as a coordinator
surrounding the technical portion of this platform. As with all humanitarian
tech, this will involve the difficult task of collecting data to provide agency
to refugees without compromising their essential right to privacy. Every feature,
every decision made must meet the requirement of furthering refugees ability to
provide a reasonable and healthy lifestyle.

So this is my new life. Project Match. I won't lie. This is the first time for
me in a long time that failing at what I'm doing legitimately scares me but for
now, the best I can do is sleep and read.

The nitty gritty details, my opinion, and resources on Project Match will come
soon. But for now, it's almost tomorrow which means I should sleep.

Later.